With vaccines rolling out among select populations, can employers start to bring back vaccinated employees into the office? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. 

Answer by Kara Govro, Senior HR Law Analyst, on Quora: 

As long as employers are complying with state and local law, they can bring employees back whenever they think is prudent. Certainly with more and more people getting vaccinated, the overall risk in the workplace will go down. However, there are a lot of things we don’t know yet (more on that below), so while employers may want to start planning for employees’ return, they should do so realizing that things may not go as expected, and may want to avoid large investments in the process, at least until they are sure if and when employees will return.

Current unknowns include how quickly the vaccines will be distributed and whether they will be effective against the new mutations. Distribution varies by state plan as does the availability of doses, space to administer them, healthcare providers, and even refrigeration. Future plans for distribution will likely depend on whether current vaccines stand up to the mutations - we know that the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, currently being distributed in the US, are less effective against the new mutations, and the AstraZeneca vaccine may not be effective against the South African variation at all. Although scientists believe that the vaccines can be adjusted to better fight new variants, that process can take six weeks or more, not including additional testing that may be required. There’s also the fact that many people will choose to forgo vaccination, whether for health, religious, or ideological reasons. All that to say that the “all clear” we are hoping for may be further away than we imagine.

Employers are smart to start thinking about what roles or individuals they’d like to bring back to the workplace first and what they can do to make that return as safe as possible. How can they create and ensure social distance? Do they need to be thinking about mitigating mold and Legionella if the workplace has been closed for weeks or months, or even a year? Will employees be interacting with customers whose vaccination status is unknown, and if so, can that be done safely? OSHA has recently released new guidance that employers should read and follow when bringing employees back (“Protecting Workers: Guidance on Mitigating and Preventing the Spread of COVID-19 in the Workplace”), but they should also have contingency plans, just in case vaccination rollout runs into delays.

MORE FOR YOU
Apple AirPods 3 Are Now In Production, Report Claims
NZXT’s N7 B550 Motherboard is Perfect For Super-Clean Gaming PCs
iPad Pro 2021: Apple Accidentally Leaks Processor, Likely For New Tablet
This question originally appeared on Quora - the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.
What are your top 5 tips for getting started as an entrepreneur? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. 

Answer by Charlene Walters, Business & Branding Mentor, Corporate Trainer & Author, on Quora: 

Here are my top 5 tips for getting started as an entrepreneur:

Brainstorm. Think about your skills and expertise and what type of businesses you might want to get involved with. Then research those markets and see where you might be able to find a hole or fill an unmet need.
Do your homework. Find out everything you can about the products, service and competitors in the space that you want to enter. You must pay particular attention to your target audience (those customers who will buy your product or service) and where they congregate as you will want to hang out there as well. Surveys work well here.
Start Planning. Work on a formal business plan with particular attention placed on revenue generation, financing and sales projection. Ensure that you have a solid plan to move your business forward.
Take action. The sooner that you get your business going, even if only as a side hustle, the faster it will gain traction.
Find a mentor and make it happen. It’s important to have someone to hold you accountable to your goals and to give you a nudge when you need it. Look for someone who can fill this role and help keep you on track. Then, it’s on you to keep going out there everyday and make it happen. You’ve got this!
This question originally appeared on Quora - the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.

Can employers mandate their employees get the COVID vaccine before coming back to the office? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. 

Answer by Kara Govro, Senior HR Law Analyst, on Quora: 

With COVID-19 vaccinations underway and widespread availability in sight, many employers want to know whether they can require their employees to get the vaccine.

While recent Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) guidance implies that employers can require a vaccine, bills have been introduced in more than 20 states to prevent employment discrimination against those who refuse a vaccine. Additionally, we anticipate that there will be numerous vaccine-related lawsuits from individuals, regardless of state law. While individuals may not succeed in suing their employers, even the opening salvo to litigation is extremely expensive. Employers who are considering mandating vaccinations should be certain that the cost-benefit analysis works out in favor of mandating.

Employers should also consider that many employees will not be keen on the idea of mandatory vaccination, and they will have the right to get together and complain about it - even publicly - due to the protections offered by Section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act. So in addition to the threat of litigation, employers should factor in the likelihood of workplace disruption and potential PR problems.

Given the legal and financial risks, and since many Americans will not have access to a vaccine until spring or even summer, we believe it will be prudent for most employers to wait to see how things play out in courts and legislatures across the country before deciding to require vaccinations.

MORE FROMFORBES ADVISOR
FDA Approves Pfizer’s and Moderna's Covid-19 Vaccines. Will This Save The Economy?
ByKelly Anne SmithForbes Advisor Staff
This question originally appeared on Quora - the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.
How can you increase your height? originally appeared on Quora: the knowledge sharing network where compelling questions are answered by people with unique insights.

Answer by Bart Loews on Quora:

A primer on your height & what you can do about it:

Your height is determined between 60%-85% by your genetics. The remainder of that is environmental, primarily nutrition [1]. If you're malnourished during your growing years you won't reach your full potential. If you get enough nutrition you'll likely reach your genetically predetermined height, possibly a little taller.

There is some indication that getting enough protein through your developmental years can add to your height positively. In Japan after the war, the population had access to more fish protein and the average height of the country increased three inches [2]. Denmark has become one of the tallest countries in the world, and its rise in height is strongly correlated to its wealth per capita [3]. The most likely takeaway here is that people who can afford to eat, and eat well, will be taller over generations. It’s easy to make this connection between these two long term correlations. Nutrition can slowly cause an increase in height between generations. It's no guarantee that you'll be taller through eating, but proper nutrition through your formative years can add a bit onto your genetics. A good, balanced diet of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates (eat food, not too much, mostly plants) and you'll do fine.

They've been doing some research on fraternal twins to try to determine what the specific gene is that determines height. The reason that they're looking at fraternal twins rather than identical twins is that their exact DNA is different but most of the environmental factors are the same (what the mother ate while they were pregnant, probably how they were treated after they were born, etc). They can then compare the genomes of the twins after they reach their height and see what is different between them. They do this for thousands of fraternal twin pairs to determine which parts of their genomes are different. As of writing this they think it's partly in the X chromosome and chromosomes 7, 8, and 20. Scientists haven't narrowed it down entirely, as genes are pretty complex and it's not as simple as it's explained in your general science classes with recessive genes and dominant genes [4].

As you grow up, your bones get longer. Everyone has Epiphyseal plates at the ends of their bones. As you grow, these plates are added onto. When you go through growth spurts, particularly puberty, they are added onto rather quickly. Some people experience growing pains in their bones as they expand. When you're done growing (mostly by the time you're 18-25), your bones ossify, the epiphyseal plates seal themselves, and you stop growing taller and longer. At that point you're done. No more growing. That's it.

How do I know if my Epiphyseal plates have sealed?

I’m going to quote this answer:

When looking at an x-ray of your limbs, look for the line between the diaphysis (shaft of the long bone) and epiphysis (rounded articulation/ where the joint lies). Here is a picture of the epiphyseal plates of the distal tibia and fibula in an ankle:uncaptioned

You can easily see the dark line above both "ankles" or malleoli. These are the epiphyseal plates you are looking for. Here is a picture when the "growth plates" are "sealed":uncaptioned

You can see the white line on both sides of the knee, known as an epiphyseal scar. The white line means the area is more dense, whereas the dark line from before means it is the less dense, growing cartilaginous tissue. If the white line exists, it means the epiphyseal plate has "closed" and no additional bone will grow from the cartilage.

Daily fluctuations

Your height actually decreases slightly through the day. In between your spinal discs there are fluid sacs. When you stand up, your head and shoulders put axial pressure on your spine and cause these sacs to compress. You can shrink by as much as 1% of your height this way (this will not accumulate beyond 1%, 1% is the most you will lose, even by standing up for a month straight) .

Simply lying down will allow them to expand again.

This isn't a big deal, though there are several sites out there than claim otherwise and claim that they can create extra space between your spinal bones. Additionally, there are claims that stretching and hanging can increase your height. This is a quarter true. Hanging and stretching can reverse the compression, making you slightly taller until your spine compresses again. Spinal compression can reduce your height temporarily by 1%. In tall people this can be as much as a half inch. Stretching and hanging and lying down can restore this 1%, but won't make you taller [5].

For this same reason, astronauts can be as much as 2" taller in space. There's not enough gravity putting axial pressure against their spine to compress it. Additionally, the fluid pressure in the sacs can exceed any forces pressing against them allowing astronauts to expand past that 1%. When they come back to earth, they return to their normal height over the course of months [6].

Your height and sports

Because of the growth plates, and the fact that your spine can compress, people got the idea that weightlifting and high impact sports could cause you to not grow as much. They're not quite right. There has been no evidence that weightlifting can stop your growth [7]. The origins of weightlifting being a thing that stunted your growth came from a couple of places, most recently a 1970s study of Japanese child laborers. The children that did work all day ended up shorter than average [8]. The truth behind the stunted growth is, of course, malnutrition. Child laborers worked long hours and didn't make much money, not nearly enough to feed themselves well.

Another reason people used to think weightlifting was bad for children was they didn't develop muscles like you do as an adult. Children don't have enough hormones yet for muscles to develop properly, but what weightlifting can do for them is put stress on the bones, encouraging them to grow as well as help them develop their central nervous system, allowing pathways to be created for them to do more work as they go into adulthood. A lot of lifting weights is in the head.

Recent studies have shown that weight lifting at any young age can help build bones and stave off obesity for children leading into their adulthood. Weight lifting at a young age has also been shown to prevent injuries and osteoporosis into old age.

Sports have a tendency to self select. I've seen so many questions: Can basketball make me taller? Can swimming make me taller? These questions are based on the fact that professional baseball players are tall and well known swimmers are tall. The well known players are tall because being tall gives them a distinct advantage in these sports. I swam for fifteen years, all through my growing years. I'm 5'7". It doesn't work like that. Further, basketball is pretty high impact. Short sprints, stops, starts, jumps. If someone thought weight lifting would stunt your growth, basketball would too for the same reasons. Every time you jump, you put several times your body weight against your muscles and bones. Much more than you would be weightlifting at that age. The same thing goes with gymnasts. They're not short because the sport makes them short, they're short because it's easier to be a great gymnast when you're short. [9]

But it's not quite as simple as that, either. Studies on female gymnasts revealed that in their youth, they show slowed height growth, primarily in their legs. When they stop doing gymnastics, they are able to reach their full potential. Gymnasts who start young have decreased bone age compared to people who start later, when they quit, their spine height and legs grow more and fully catch up to where they are predicted to be based on genetics within eight years of quitting. Men did not experience this at all. Through out their entire growth within the sport, they don't suffer from abnormal bone ages or strange growth patterns and actually end up being as tall as they should be based on genetics even while continuing the sport [10]. The gymnasts they analyzed reached their full genetic height under the conditions analyzed. Most of them were actually just supposed to be short, their parents were short. It's mainly a correlative link between the sport and the height, possibly connected to nutrition.

Several other studies relating to particular sports (ballet, wrestling, distance running) link to height issues. These sports, along with gymnastics, particularly for females, have rigorous training requirements limiting the time children have to eat. Additionally, the sports themselves put particular demands on the participants weight [11]. It's likely these growth impediments are due more to nutritional deficits rather than something intrinsic to the sport.

Studies performed on swimmers, gymnasts, and tennis players also support the correlation to height but not causation because the participants are actually reaching their appropriate height, not exceeding it. As far as the sport goes, they're just self-selected for their height.

Sleep During Development

There have been a few studies that I was able to find relating to sleep patterns and growth. It's well known that when you sleep your body releases all sorts of hormones and most of your growth and recovery happens at this time [12]. One would think that a lack of sleep would cause stunted growth.

For children aged 5-11 and 1-10 there were a couple studies done. One found a very weak negative correlation between sleep time and height. In neither study did the researchers conclude that the correlation was significant enough to say that sleep correlated with height growth at this age  [13]  [14].

Other studies involving interviews over a couple of years with adolescents found that sleep problems were correlated with lower "puberty scores" (that tracks their development to adult-hood). However, an association between height and sleep wasn't noticed, but the researchers noted that more needed to be done [note: I could be reading that wrong, It's possible it wasn't tracked at all; if someone knows better, let me know] [15].

Finally, and much more indicative of likely issues, a study performed on children diagnosed with sleep apnea showed their height was affected negatively by the apnea condition [16].

Based on this research it looks like there could be an issue related to height growth and a significant lack of sleep. In any case, based on the overall benefits of sleep, I'd recommend not skimping on sleep during your growth years, and getting checked out for apnea if you have noticed any of the symptoms.

Myths Concerning Growing Taller and Stunted Growth

There are tons of old wives' tales out there about strategies for growing taller. They might not all hurt you, but they sure won't help. If anyone has any studies that back up any of these strategies, I'd gladly move them from my myths section to my realities section:

Skipping. How this is a thing I have no idea, particularly when you look at the myths (and realities) laid out earlier about gymnastics and weightlifting. If weightlifting makes you short (myth) and gymnastics makes you short (partially true, as detailed above), how would skipping (relatively high impact asymmetric leaping from one foot to the other) make you taller?
Sports like: Swimming, basketball, cycling, any others, making you taller, dispelled above. They're amazing activities and can help you grow stronger, faster, smarter, and build teamwork and leadership skills, but they won't make you taller.
Stretching and yoga. Things like "Growing Tall for Idiots". They can help your posture, but as you're growing they won't add inches, they'll just help you express your height.
Hanging exercises. They'll decompress your spinal disks allowing you to gain as much as a half inch in the middle of the day, but the gains will only last a few hours.
Salt in your shoes.
Praying and wishful thinking. They might make you feel better, but you won't get taller as a result.
Miracle pills -- things like Ayurvedic Urea, Ayurvedic "Step Up." Snake oil is a unsubstantiated claim applied to medicines and supplements. Even actual Ayurvedic practitioners will tell you that there is nothing in any Ayurvedic textbook on height increase. All height increase supplements are snake oil.
Particular diets and foods (milk, etc) will make you taller. While eating enough is essential to realizing your full potential, there's no evidence that any particular food will have more effect than anything else. There's also no evidence that other animal's growth hormones (like trace amounts of bovine growth hormone in milk) will help you grow taller or stronger. The only diet you need is one that contains a good balance of carbs, proteins, fats, and contains all the vitamins and minerals you need.
Particular foods will stunt your growth. There is NO evidence that coffee stunts your growth [17]. Diet Coke does not stunt your growth [18]. The major problems with diet drinks and coffee are that they contain very little in the way of nutrients and can fill up a kid's stomach. Plus, caffeine can be used as an appetite suppressant. All of this adds up to a child not getting enough nutrients. Sodas aren't great because they're packed with sugar. While you need sugar, you don't need the amount a couple sodas give you, and you need other nutrients just as much: proteins, fats, vitamins and electrolytes like potassium and calcium. I kept my kids away from these drinks to keep their appetite going so they have enough room to eat.
That particular activities like weight lifting will stunt your growth, as mentioned above.
Exercise releases HGH that will help you grow. Studies on this phenomenon have shown that HGH release through exercise only has an effect on the localized areas that are exercised. Lifting legs releases much more GH than lifting arms. If you work legs and arms in the same day, it will not make your arms stronger than if you lift your arms by themselves even though your body is coursing with GH [19]. There is no reason to think that your height will be affected by GH released through exercise for that reason and there is no evidence to back up that claim. Exercise and weight lifting during puberty is a great thing, it could possibly set you up to be much stronger and healthier throughout your life...just not taller.
What can actually be done about your height?

There are few things that can be done, and most of these treatments are only responsibly given in cases of abnormalities. As stated above, the best thing you can do is strive to be as tall as you can naturally be by eating properly through your childhood. As mentioned above, by eating a balanced diet with plenty of protein, carbs, and fat, you may be able to exceed genetic expectations by a small amount -- possibly more over several generations of proper eating. Exercise and sports can be helpful in keeping you healthy and generating strong bones, but in the end it won't make you taller than your genes say you will be.

Hormone treatment

Occasionally, there comes along a case where a child is short inexplicably. When you bring a short kid into see the doctor, they'll eliminate diet first. Most of the time if the child isn't eating right and then they start eating properly, they'll shoot right up. In some cases, the kid is eating right, but they just aren't growing. To qualify for these cases you usually have to be in the bottom 3rd percentile of your age but you should be higher, based on genetic predictors. In those cases HGH treatments have shown that they can grow over 9 centimeters over the adjusted predictions [20]. If this is the case for you, see a doctor and ask them about it. They'll usually do tests to determine if your body isn't generating enough hormones. If it is generating enough, a responsible doctor won't give you more. It's not safe to mess around with the endocrine system. Too much of different hormones introduced artificially can make glands stop producing normally and shrink.

Spinal Conditions

There are a number of conditions that can make you appear shorter.

Scoliosis:uncaptioned

Kyphosis:uncaptioned

Getting these conditions diagnosed and treated can add several inches to your effective height, making you appear the height that you are.

Posture

Additionally, a lot of people experience bad posture. Later in life you won't grow taller, but if you get in the gym, start being active, and focus on standing up straight and tall you can fully express your height. There's no special exercise you need to do (back exercises can help like Straight Leg Dead Lifts) but it's more a focus on being active and standing tall.

Keep your head level, looking forward, not up or down.
Chest out
Shoulder blades back and tucked down, like you're trying to make your neck longer
Slightly flexed abs for support
Pelvic floor neutral
Surgery

There is a controversial, expensive, painful, high risk surgery with a very long recovery time called distraction osteogenesis. They break your tibia and fibula then affix a device to keep them separated.

While this is taking place, you cannot put weight on your bone and you have to undergo 1-2 hours of physical therapy daily to keep the bones from getting stiff. This process can take months to complete. After the new bone is formed there is another 6 months strengthening time period where you need to carefully strengthen the bone without the lengthening device. The entire process can take as long as 2 years. Even after all that there are dozens of complications:

The new bone may not form solidly and there's a good chance of breakage within 2-3 months.
The new bone may not form in the proper angle.
You might not grow the expected 2-3 inches.
Your leg lengths may not be even afterwards.
An infection can be catastrophic.
Nerve damage could cause you to lose the leg entirely.
Usually the only time they do this surgery is to correct cases where one leg is significantly shorter than the other. Because of the recovery process, any credible doctor will have the patient go through a psych evaluation prior to the surgery to validate that they can handle the recovery process. Personally, it sounds dangerous, risky, and pointless  [21].

Look Taller

There are a few strategies to help you appear to be taller as well.

Shoes: Wear shoes with bigger heels. At certain point you could be pushing the bounds of traditional fashion, but if you feel like you can rock it, by all means:

Insoles/Risers:

You can get insoles called risers that can make a normal shoe act like high heels and push you up without having anything look different externally.

Combine the two and you could add several inches.

Clothes that fit: When you wear clothes that actually fit you, it can make you appear longer than normal, particularly skinny jeans and shirts that aren’t baggy.

Working out: You don’t need to get massive or muscular and you don’t need to get super skinny. Keeping your body fat down can contribute to your looking lean (not to mention being and looking healthy). Getting your body down below 20% body fat for a man should be a goal for both health and looking good. At this point clothes will fit better and give you longer lines.

Wear horizontal stripes: This one’s a little counterintuitive, but it’s been backed up by science [What Makes You Look Fat: Vertical or Horizontal Lines?]uncaptioned

Horizontal stripes actually make you look thinner and taller than vertical ones.

Taller hair: Putting your hair in a more vertical alignment will make your face look longer helping give the impression of height.

Exude confidence: Easier said than done, but a self-confident person always appears larger than they actually are.

When all else fails: Get some painting stilts.

The Outliers

Finally, in contradiction to everything I said above, there are some people who have conditions like a tumor affecting their pituitary gland which controls certain growth hormones. They often experience uncontrollable growth.

Before you start researching how you can give yourself a pituitary tumor, people afflicted with this after puberty will see their hands and feet grow continuously along with their skin thicken, soft tissues grow and organs increase in size. It's not a pleasant condition [22].

Height is not everything

In closing, there's nothing wrong with being short. Some of the most powerful men in the world have been short. Your height doesn't make you a better person, it doesn't make you more attractive or less attractive, at least to people that matter. What matters more than anything else is how you project yourself. The more confident you are, the more you can accomplish and that has nothing to do with your height.

Make the most of who you are. It doesn't matter if people physically look down on you right now if you can make your mark on history.

Footnotes

[1] How much of human height is genetic and how much is due to nutrition?

[2] Inside Japan: Surprising Facts About Japanese Foodways

[3] Why the Dutch are so tall

[4] Height Hopes | Understanding Genetics

[5] 3 Types of Spinal Disc Problems

[6] My How You've Grown!

[7] There is no need to avoid resistance training (weight lifting) until physeal closure.

[8] Phys Ed: The Benefits of Weight Training for Children

[9] Page on researchgate.net

[10] Female Gymnasts: does their training reduce growth rates, delay maturation and increase the risk of long-term skeletal injury?

[11] Are There Exercises that Stunt Children's Growth? | LIVESTRONG.COM

[12] Sleep deprivation effects on the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and growth axes: potential clinical implications.

[13] Page on nih.gov

[14] Sleep duration from ages 1 to 10 years: variability and stability in comparison with growth.

[15] The association between pubertal status and sleep duration and quality among a nationally representative sample of U. S. adolescents.

[16] [Study on the height and weight in children with obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome].

[17] It's a Myth: There's No Evidence That Coffee Stunts Kids' Growth

[18] Does soda stunt growth?

[19] Research Review: Anabolic hormone release = more muscle? | Precision Nutrition

[20] Effect of growth hormone treatment on adult height of children with idiopathic short stature. Genentech Collaborative Group.

[21] #getArticle.articleTitle#

[22] Pituitary gigantism

This question originally appeared on Quora. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and access insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. More questions:

Height Increase: What exercises do I need to do in a gym to grow in height?
Human Body: Why are most people right handed?
Biology: Are we biologically programmed to die?

Quora
Quora
Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.
Print
Reprints & Permissions
Pause
Unmute
Current Time 
0:00
/
Duration 
1:09
 
Share
Fullscreen
Mar 31, 2021,08:31am EST
Every Gamer Should Treat Their Butt To Comfort With These 7 Gaming Chairs We Love
Forbes Personal Shopper
Jon MartindaleContributor
Forbes Personal ShopperContributor Group
Shopping
I've been a freelance tech journalist for 15 years, covering everything from PC hardware, to hacking scandals, Bitcoin, and privacy law.
All products and services featured are independently selected by Forbes Shopping contributors and editors. When you make a purchase through links on this page, we may earn a commission. Learn more

Gamer sitting in AKRacing gaming chair
AKRACING
Playing video games in a gaming chair can be a transformative experience. No longer do you need to stretch and groan when you stand up after a long session. The best gaming chairs will keep you comfortable no matter how many hours you stay in the hot seat. (But please take regular breaks regardless!)

Maintaining a good posture while sitting for long periods is of paramount importance to your health, and these chairs will help you do just that. They look the part too, with options for different color schemes and cover materials, from breathable fabric to soft faux leather.

Adjustability is also key to ensuring the chair can conform to your unique body shape and comfort needs, not to mention fun bells and whistles like footrests, massage motors and built-in speakers. Let’s hop into the driver’s seat and take a look at all these glorious gaming thrones!

MORE FROMFORBES SHOPPING
If You Have Oily Skin, You Need These Game-Changing Toners Stat
ByKasey CaminitiContributor
The Best Amazon Deals Today, From Air Fryers To Treadmills
ByKara CuzzoneForbes Staff
Best Gaming Chair Overall
Vertagear Racing Series S-Line SL5000
Vertagear Racing Series S-Line SL5000 Gaming Chair Black/Carbon Edition
AMAZON
Vertagear Racing Series S-Line SL5000 Gaming Chair Black/Carbon Edition
$388 - $669
BUY FROM AMAZON
The Vertagear S-Line SL5000 is the latest evolution on a classic design. With extreme comfort in mind, it has plenty of supportive padding, which is perfect for gamers who want to game for multiple hours in a single session. The chair is easy to assemble too—one person can put it together within 30 minutes or so.

On the bottom of the chair, there are custom Penta RS1 casters, which are coated with PU for a soft and smooth gliding experience on the chair, so moving around shouldn't feel bumpy. The chair is a little expensive depending on the color you get, but it's still a great choice for gamers who put a premium on build quality.

Best Ergonomic Gaming Chair
Ikea Markus
Ikea Markus
IKEA
MARKUS Office chair, black Glose Robust black
$229
BUY FROM IKEA
Standing out from the crowd of racing-style gaming chairs, the Ikea Markus is something quite different. With a complete mesh back, it has great airflow even among the best gaming chairs, and has many of their same supportive strengths.

The angle and height of the chair can be easily adjusted to find the best position for your posture and preferred seating angle, and the PU leather coating on the seat and headrest give additional padding where it counts. The arm rests aren't adjustable, but they are padded and supportive, helping to avoid some of the pitfalls of long play sessions at your desk.

Supportive, but understated, the Markus is one of the best gaming chairs in part because it doesn't look like a typical gaming chair. If you're bored of the sea of racing buckets, the Markus is a great way to upgrade your chair without becoming one of the crowd.

FORBES.COM
Ikea Discount Codes | 10% Off In March 2021 | Forbes
Premium Quality From A Stalwart Brand
AKRacing Masters Series - Arctica
AKRacing Masters
BEST BUY
AKRacing Masters Series Premium Gaming Chair - Arctica
$469
$529
SAVE $60 (11%)
BUY FROM BEST BUY
White is the hottest new shade in PC building and minimalist game-room design trends, and no such setup would be complete without a chair to match. The Arctica version of the AKRacing Masters Series gaming chair is anything but just another white accessory though; it's a door to a whole new world of gaming comfort.

With excellent build quality all round, the AKRacing Masters Series is one of the best gaming chairs you can buy period, featuring multi-axis adjustable armrests, a robust tilt lock letting you set you favorite reclining angle and movable lumbar and head-rest cushions, helping you get the support you need at the right height for your build.

The chair is covered with a high-quality PU Leather and color-coded stitching, and it’s underlaid with 30% more foam than the AKRacing Core Series chairs. You're getting a whole lot of gaming chair for this reduced price.

Best Gaming Chair With Speakers
GTRACING Gaming Chair Massager
GTRacing Massage gaming chair
AMAZON
GTRacing Massage Gaming Chair
$199
BUY FROM AMAZON
This GTRacing gaming chair might look similar to a lot of its competition, but it has something they don't: a built in massager. This chair is designed to keep you as comfortable as possible for long periods, making it easier to change position while you game and helping to relieve built up tension in your lumbar with its USB-powered motor. It also helps enable surround sound gaming, movies and music with two built-in Bluetooth speakers.

The fabric is a cushy PU leather that's smooth to the touch and easy to wipe down if you spill something on it, and the internal metal frame is strong and supportive. The lumbar support massager helps alleviate any lower back pain over longer gaming sessions, and reminds you to maintain good posture even if you're playing for long periods of time without getting up.

Best Reclining Gaming Chair
Corsair T2 Road Warrior
Corsair Road Warrior T2
CORSAIR
Corsair T2 Road Warrior
$377
$399
SAVE $22 (6%)
BUY FROM AMAZON
Corsair might be most well known for starting the RGB revolution on PC components, but it also makes some of the best gaming chairs. The T2 Road Warrior is one of them, and though it doesn't quite match the specs of the newer T3 model, while that chair is almost impossible to find, the T2 is a very close second—and it's more affordable too.

The T2 is available in a range of colors, including red, blue, yellow, white and standard black. The chair features a blend of PU leather in the main body of the chair and soft microfiber fabric for the head and lumbar support pillows.

Supremely adjustable, you can change the angle of the seat until it’s practically a bed, or use a more upright setting to aid your posture. The height and orientation of the armrests are fully customizable too, helping to make this chair the perfect fit for you.

A Comfortable Gaming Chair
Arozzi Vernazza Soft Fabric Gaming Chair
Arozzi Vernazza
AROZZI
Arozzi Vernazza Fabric Gaming Chair
$391
$449
SAVE $58 (13%)
BUY FROM AMAZON
Prefer a chair that is both refined and comfortable without any sticky, noisy leather? The Arozzi Vernazza could be the perfect chair for you. It features an all-fabric design that is both soft and breathable, making it easier to stay cool during longer gaming sessions; especially in hotter environments.

This is one of Arozzi's bigger chairs, so larger gamers can feel right at home, and smaller ones can curl up into all sorts of configurations to get themselves comfortable. Adjustments to the main chair and arm rests are good, though the latter are more 3D than 4D, so they don't quite have the same range of customization as some other chairs in this price bracket.

The Vernazzie comes with ergonomic neck and lumbar support pillows to help maintain comfort and posture, and you get the option of locking the chair in your preferred position along a generous rocking range.

Pink All Over
AutoFull Pink Bunny Ears Gaming Chair
AutoFull
AMAZON
AutoFull Pink Gaming Chair With Rabbit Ears
$269
$309
SAVE $40 (13%)
BUY FROM AMAZON
The AutoFull Pink gaming chair isn't the most inspired of designs from a build standpoint, even if it ticks most of the boxes. While it goes through the motions on the basics like height adjustable seat and armrest functions, and lumbar and neck support cushions, this is the only chair that ships with its own pair of detachable bunny ears and a little fluffy tail at the back.

Those ears don't do a thing for comfort or support, but they do offer a unique style choice that you won’t find on any other gaming chair out there. With its eye-catching pink and white color scheme, it offers a unique look for any Twitch stream. The back features a mesh design to help cool you down during long gaming sessions, and the quiet coasters make sure that you don't rattle around for those with hard flooring.

Do you need to buy a "Gaming" chair?
“Gaming chair” is a marketing term more than anything else, though it has become synonymous with racing bucket-style seats more than anything else in recent years. That doesn't mean you can't find gaming chairs that aren't like that, nor that racing bucket seats aren't great. In fact, some of the best gaming chairs do utilize that design, even if it is a little common.

Gaming chairs also tend to have features which traditional office chairs don't. Not all of them are necessary, but if you want to make sure your seat includes strong lumbar support, adjustable arm rests, a multitude of supported angles and a sturdy frame, buying a gaming chair is one way to do that.

What features do you want in a gaming chair?
All gaming chairs are a little different, so picking the right chair for you will be a matter of personal preference. That said, you want to make sure your chair is designed with your frame and weight in mind. Some chairs have more space and support than others, so check the specifications and reviews before buying.

You'll also want to consider lumbar and neck support. Most gaming chairs have it, but some offer it in the form of adjustable cushions. This can be preferable to fixed support, especially if you're not around average height.

Adjustable arm rests are worth looking out for too. Some are described as "4D" which makes them adjustable in four dimensions: Forward and back, up and down, in-and-out (width between them) and swivel. Also, if you like to recline in your chair, check for rocking options, and make sure there’s a tilt lock if you want to maintain a specific angle.

What's the best material for a gaming chair?
It depends what your preference is. PU Leather is both animal-friendly and more affordable than traditional leather. It can also be a little more breathable, though the crown for that style of seating cover is stolen by fabric and mesh. Those allow the maximum amount of airflow around your body while gaming, helping you to stay cool.

One advantage of faux and real leather, though, is that it's wipeable, so if you feel like you might spill something on your chair in the future, so it could be worth going that route to ensure its surfaces are easy to wipe down.

Follow me on Twitter. Check out my website or some of my other work here. 
